A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Hike to the northernmost point of Point Reyes to see tule elk, wildflowers and fantastic ocean views. Quite windy throughout the year. A popular route to Berry Creek Falls, one of the best hikes in the bay area Pleasant hike in Rancho San Antonio along PG&E Trail. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. A longer route route to Berry Creek Falls, one of the best hikes in the bay area A vigorous climb to East Peak for magnificent 360-degree views. Awesome hike to West Ridge and Five Finger Falls. A relaxed walk amid second growth redwoods. A gorgeous hike in Portola Redwoods. A pretty hike along beaches and bluffs between Fizgerald Marine Reserve and Pillar Point Harbor. A strenuous day hike to the tallest peak in continental USA. Nice hike visiting both Balconies Cave and High Peaks in Pinnacles. Rugged terrain and panoramic views abound in this hike. Nice loop through Purisima Creek Redwoods that goes through all three park entrances: east, north and west. A challenging hike to Black Mountain from Rancho San Antonio. A vigorous climb to Mt Montara, through some beautifully shaded trails in San Pedro Valley Park. An awesome hike with 21 wooden bridges for creek crossings. Best done in winters after rains when creeks are full of water. A classic Big Sur hike from Andrew Molera State Park to Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park. A spectacular hike from the northern end of Golden Gate Bridge to Muir Beach. A gorgeous hike along bluffs near Pacific Ocean and along long sandy beaches. A short walk along Shadow Cliffs Lake. A fantastic hike that offers great views of Angel Island, Highway 101 and Golden Gate Bridge as the route meanders through green rolling hills. The destination is Black Sands Beach, a long sandy beach with few visitors. Excellent hike for spring wildflowers. Gently sloped, forested route in Wunderlich Park. Nice route through tall redwoods and vista points in Portola Valley. A pleasant 6-mile route that first climbs up a shaded canyon along a single-track hiking trail, then meanders down a fire road with awesome views of the Big Sur coastline. “For its diversity of scenery, easy walking, and convenient access, Mosaic Canyon is one of the most popular hiking destinations in the park. If Death Valley is new to you, the lower canyon is a good introduction to the unexpected delights of desert canyons. It has tortuous narrows with colorful mosaics, finely polished marble, and interesting geology. The upper canyon, far less visited, will appeal even to seasoned desert rats for its sculptured narrows, rugged canyons, and hard-to-reach Twin Springs.” — Michel Digonnet. An interesting hike through varied terrain. Mostly shaded. Two river crossings across San Lorenzo river in the adjoining Henry Cowell Redwoods State Park. Part 1 of the 32-mile East Bay Skyline National Recreation Trail, from Alvarado Staging Area (Wildcat Canyon) to Inspiration Point (Tilden). Nice loop through all major trails in Arastradero Preserve, going through forests and green rolling hills. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A beautiful shaded hike through redwood filled trails in Portola Redwoods State Park. A vigorous climb to Mt Montara, with excellent views of Pacific coastline Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks via Loma Prieta Grade and West Ridge Trail. An interesting hike through redwoods and green rolling hills in a rarely visited part of Purisima Creek. In June 2010, some bushwhacking required towards the end. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. A relaxed walk amid second growth redwoods. A beautiful hike along the bluffs next to Pacific Ocean, providing access to multiple beaches en route. A pleasant walk through forests from Wunderlich Park to Huddart Park. A steep Big Sur hike in Andrew Molera State Park. Great 360-degree views from the summit. A loop around salt marshes and ponds. Spectacular hike in Yosemite to awesome 360-degree views. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A vigorous climb to Mt Montara, with excellent views of Pacific coastline Pleasant hike amid green rolling hills with panoramic views of residential complexes of Danville. A decent cardiovascular workout through redwoods to a remote section of Castle Rock. Shaded hike through redwoods and with two river crossings. A long route with two climbs. First climb is from Ohlone College to Mission Peak. Second climb is from Stanford Ave trailhead to Mission Peak. Pleasant route via Harkins Ridge, Craig Britton trails in the north and Grabtown Gulch, Borden Hatch Mill trails in the south. Awesome hike to Mt Livermore and along the western section of Angel Island A pleasant short hike to a vista point which offers expansive views from Pigeon Point Lighthouse in the north to Gazos Creek Beach in the south. Pleasant, shaded walk through redwoods adjoining Highway 9. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Nice hike adjoining a lake, through a forest and green rolling hills with panoramic valley views. A long but fantastic route through varied terrain covering all major trails in McNee Ranch and San Pedro Valley. A relaxed easy stroll along the Pacific. A pleasant walk next to San Leandro Bay. Nice loop through Whittemore Gulch and Harkins Ridge, starting at the north entrance. A nice hike offering great views of green rolling hills and the serene San Leandro Reservoir. Mostly unshaded. Pleasant hike through varied terrain, best visited in spring or winter. A classic short hike in Castle Rock. A third of the route is over stony terrain providing beautiful views of Santa Cruz Mountains. The rest of the hike is shaded by forest. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A pleasant walk from Montara Beach to Gray Whale Cove Beach with excellent views of the Pacific. The number of distinct wildflowers along this trail is probably the highest among bay area trais. Pleasant walk next to Sausal Creek in Oakland. A long loop through green rolling hills. Pleasant, shaded walk through Castle Rock. Nice hike visiting both Balconies Cave and High Peaks in Pinnacles. Pleasant walk through green rolling hills with panoramic valley views. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A short walk around Cupertino Memorial Park featuring a duck pond and a veterans memorial. Awesome hike along Little Butano Creek Trail that meanders next to Little Butano Creek for about two miles. A pleasant hike through Orestimba Wilderness through green rolling hills and a walk around Mississippi Lake. Many sections of Hartman Trail were particularly steep. Awesome hike through a redwood canyon, chaparral filled ridges and views of jagged Big Sur coastline. A superb cross-country adventure involving scrambling and walking through waist-deep water in Point Reyes. Can be done only a few days in the whole year in negative tide conditions. Pleasant, shaded walk through redwoods adjoining Highway 9. Great hike through varied terrain including open spaces, forests and creeks. A fantastic hike through shaded redwoods that requires four river crossings through knee-deep water. Doable only in late summer when water level is low. Pleasant, shaded walk through Castle Rock. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A beautiful hike through varied terrain in Point Reyes, including a scramble down to Alamere Falls that drops directly into the ocean. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Gorgeous hike over green rolling hills. An urban walk along a paved bike trail between South San Francisco BART Station and San Bruno BART Station. Grand views of Sunol from atop Flag Hill. Long loop visiting the north entrance via Whittemore Gulch and Craig Britton trails. Return journey via Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Nice hike through a shaded forest. A long loop covering all major trails in Alum Rock Park. Gently graded hike with awesome valley views in Sunol Popular winter hike to watch elephant seals at Año Nuevo. Grand views of Sunol from atop Flag Hill. Route goes through Little Yosemite Area as well. Long walk along salt marshes and ponds of San Francisco Bay. Pleasant hike through second growth redwoods. Nice long hike to Berry Creek Falls along Skyline to the Sea trail A point to point hike from Ed Levin to Ohlone College, via Monument Peak and Mission Peak. Gorgeous views of green valleys in spring, especially along the section connecting the two peaks. Good hike for cardiovascular workout along rolling hills. A short hike in Portola Valley. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. An adventurous hike along rocky beaches possible only in low tide conditions. Few people go along this route, so the route provides great solitude. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A walk along Purisima Creek Trail from west to east entrance. Nice hike to Maguire Peak with panoramic valley views. A decent cardiovascular workout through redwoods to a remote section of Castle Rock. Beautiful walk amid tall trees next to a well developed park in Santa Cruz. A pleasant walk next to the Pacific coastline near Greyhound Rock. A spectacular hike along the Pacific Coast over bluffs and through beaches. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks to Five Finger Falls via Sand Point Overlook. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Pleasant walk in Sunnyvale, next to San Francisco Bay. Great fitness hike with panoramic valley views. A short hike in Eaton Park Pleasant walk along fire roads, partly shaded. A long loop going through Harkins Ridge, Craig Britton, Borden Hatch Mill and Grabtown Gulch trails. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. A popular hike with great views of Silicon Valley. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. The route also goes through Sand Point Overlook. Short walk to a church with fabulous views of nearby dwellings and San Francisco Bay. A long relaxed walk over green rolling hills. A pleasant walk around a duck pond. Short, sweet hike through Bear Gulch Caves in Pinnacles. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Awesome hike along Little Butano Creek Trail that meanders next to Little Butano Creek for about two miles. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. Short hike through redwoods to a vantage point that offers panoramic valley views. A gorgeous walk along sandy beaches, bluff trails and bike trails in Half Moon Bay. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill A definitive Mt Diablo hike with steep climbs and majestic valley views. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. An extension to the popular Mission Peak hike that goes up to Monument Peak. The views along the trai connecting the two peaks are gorgeous. Beautiful short hike to an easy summit with excellent views of Hiddenbrooke valley full of homes. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A pleasant hike over green rolling hills and through three lakes. Plenty of wildflowers in spring. A pleasant urban walk around Lake Merritt. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks to West Ridge and Five Finger Falls. An urban walk around Lake Merced in San Francisco. Fantastic hike on full moon nights offering awesome views of east bay. A fantastic route through green rolling hills and beaches with great ocean views. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A gorgeous hike through redwoods in two adjacent parks. Awesome hike in Pinnacles going through a cave and High Peaks, that offer panoramic valley views. Pleasant, shaded walk through Castle Rock. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Walk along the entire length of Golden Gate Bridge with awesome views of Angel Island and San Francisco skyline. An awesome, long hike through varied terrain. The route includes panoramic views from fire roads and ridge trails, fully shaded trails leading to waterfalls and cascades, creek crossings without bridges. Cross-country hike in Tumey Hills that requires almost 30 river crossings. The ascent to Big Ben involves two steep sections, which are great for a cardiovascular workout. The descent is mostly along Fall Creek which has plenty of water in winters and spring. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall and a mountain top in Marin County with excellent views. Best visited after recent rains. A fully shaded loop through redwoods in Phleger Estate. Quite a bit of the route is next to a creek that has plenty of water after winter rains. An interesting loop combining trails from Mt Tamalpais and Marin Headlands. Two trails have steep sections: Dipsea Trail and Dias Ridge Trail. A beautiful hike through varied terrain including sandy beaches, rocky beaches and forests. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A pleasant walk through varied terrain, including a vista point with expansive views of Silicon Valley. A pleasant walk through forests and ridges with panoramic valley views. Best visited in spring when hills are lush green. Long route in Purisima Creek Redwoods that goes through all three entrances: east, north and west. Visits Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails as well. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks via Loma Prieta Grade and West Ridge Trail. A longer route route to Berry Creek Falls, one of the best hikes in the bay area A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A short sweet hike offering spectacular views of San Francisco Bay and residential areas nearby. Great hike over hills with panoramic ocean views. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. Pleasant walk through green rolling hills with panoramic valley views. An alternate route to Berry Creek Falls that is almost as scenic. Pleasant, shaded walk through Castle Rock. A pleasant walk in a rather secluded park next to San Francisco Bay. A quiet walk through marshlands and bike trails. A gorgeous route through hills to the east of Del Valle lake. It offers lake views from various angles, close and afar. A quiet walk through marshlands with access to Sacramento River. A long shaded route amid redwoods in Pescadero Creek County Park. A challenging hike to Black Mountain from Rancho San Antonio. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. Gorgeous hike in Forest of Nisene Marks to a small, seasonal waterfall. Fantastic short hike going through Bear Gulch Cave and High Peaks which offer panoramic valley views of rock formations in Pinnacles. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A pleasant 9-mile route that first climbs up a shaded canyon along a single-track hiking trail, then meanders down a fire road with awesome views of the Big Sur coastline. In between, the route goes along a connector trail that parallels the Pacific. Nice walk through marshlands and sloughs without any elevation gain. Especially awesome at sunrise and sunset. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A short pleasant hike in Tomales Bay. A gorgeous, fully shaded, short hike adjoining Larkspur Creek that flows with water after thunderstorms. Side trip to King Mountain Loop for panoramic valley views. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. A short hike involving rock scrambling and beach walk, feasible only in low tide conditions. The most popular fitness hike in the bay area that gains 2100 ft in three miles. Great hike through forest and creeks near Highway 35. A pleasant walk along fire roads offering panoramic valley views. A gorgeous route via Craig Britton Trail, Harkins Ridge and Purisima Creek Trail. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. A gorgeous, fully shaded, short hike going through hiking trails in three adjacent open space preserves, including a trip to Dawn Falls. A variation of the regular route from Ohlone College: from Mission Peak, it continues along Peak Trail, then returns via Grove Trail and Peak Trail. Gorgeous valley views A pleasant walk along West Cliff Drive with great views of the Pacific. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. Nice walk through marshlands and sloughs without any elevation gain. Especially awesome at sunrise and sunset. A fantastic hike through a long sandy beach followed by a bluff trail with great views of the Pacific. “You can't go wrong with Fall Canyon. It is easily accessed, easy to walk, and one of the two or three most consistently deep and narrow canyons in the park. Its majestic cliffs and winding corridors are likely to inspire even the most seasoned desert hiker.” — Michel Digonnet. Nice loop through varied terrain including forests and trails adjoining Lake Chabot. A pleasant walk along Home Bay in Point Reyes. Plus a trip to awesome views of Limantour Spit from Drakes Head. A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. An awesome hike in Big Basin going through varied terrain. Short loop through green rolling hills. Awesome hike to Maple Falls. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A gorgeous hike to Maple Falls going through redwoods. There are multiple creek crossings without bridges in the last half mile. Best done after a thunderstorm because the waterfall is seasonal and short lived. This route combines valley trails along Bridge Creek with ridge trails for a good overall experience and slightly more elevation gain than the shortest possible route to Maple Falls. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Gorgeous, secluded walk along the Pacific coastline to Slide Ranch with farm animals. Access to two rocky beaches in Slide Ranch. Relaxed hike around Contra Loma lake and the hills nearby. An awesome walk combining urban areas and green rolling hills, with a side trip to the lake in Don Castro Reservoir. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. Nice, shaded hike through Forest of Nisene Marks to an overlook point in the north of the park. Nice shaded hike through redwoods. A pleasant walk next to the bay. Great hike through various vista points in Fremont Older. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Vigorous hike with grand views of Sunol from atop Flag Hill and along Vista Grande. A long hike through five adjacent parks in East Bay. Great hike over green rolling hills with panoramic valley vies. Best visited in spring when hills are lush green. Short loop through varied terrian including forests and grasslands. A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. A walk adjoining San Pablo Reservoir with a few miles on paved road. Wonderful walk next to Sausal Creek, followed by Palos Colorados Trail, which meanders along a cool redwood canyon. A short hike to Granite Point via Whaler's Cove. Quick hike in Castle Rock. A pleasant walk through green rolling hills offering panoramic valley views. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Beautiful shaded hike through forests. Nice hike along Bay Area Ridge Trail. A walk along paved road with great ocean views on clear days. Not many wildflowers in this section of the park. A fantastic hike through shaded redwoods that requires four river crossings through knee-deep water. Doable only in late summer when water level is low. Beautiful loop around Borden Hatch Mill Trail and Grabtown Gulch Trail from East Entrance. Beautiful short hike to an easy summit with excellent views of Hiddenbrooke valley full of homes. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A great hike over remote rolling hills with panoramic valley views. Best done in spring when hills are green. A gorgeous, shaded hike to Dawn Falls along with a side trip to King Mountain Loop. Nice walk along a five-mile sandy beach extending from Fort Funston in the south to Cliff House in the north. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Pleasant walk along fire roads, partly shaded. Gorgeous route through forests and open spaces of Black Diamond Mines going through mining related attractions in the park. A gorgeous hike to Peters Creek Loop amid tall redwoods. This route adds an additional 3.6 miles along Slate Creek Trail for a 16-mile hike. A serene hike along Duxbury Reef that is feasible only in low tide conditions. About half of the hike is along paved roads. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. One of the finest bay area hikes that climbs up an evergreen forest next to a creek. Awesome city hike with a section that goes along the Pacific coastline and Baker Beach. Awesome redwood hike all along Aptos Creek, with several creek crossings without bridges. A quiet shaded hike through redwoods and creeks in Portola Redwoods. A point to point route to Mission Peak from Ohlone College to Stanford Ave via Horse Heaven Trail. Gorgeous views and solitude all along except at the peak. Great hike through quiet, shaded trails in Castle Rock. Great hike through varied terrain including open spaces, redwoods and creeks. A gorgeous hike along trails meandering along creeks and through redwoods, forests and open spaces. Awesome ocean views as well. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. A short walk around Lake Merced. Pleasant hike through varied terrain including rolling hills and forests. This route goes through all major trails in Pulgas Ridge. A quiet walk through marshlands and trails adjoining San Francisco Bay. An alternative route to Mission Peak, arguably the most popular fitness hike in the bay area that gains 2100 ft in three miles. Pleasant hike in Rancho San Antonio along PG&E Trail. A popular hike with great views of Silicon Valley. Long loop covering most of the trails in Pogonip Preserve, going through varied terrian including forests and grasslands. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. The route also goes through Sand Point Overlook. An awesome short loop through waterfalls and creeks in Uvas Canyon. “Punctuated with idyllic waterfalls and irrigated by a ovely perennial creek, the deep narrows of Darwin Canyon are among the most lush and beautiful in the park. The short walk to the lower waterfall is a wonderful illustration of the miracle of water in the desert. The challenging climb through the serene upper narrows to China Garden Spring is a gem for the experienced hiker.” — Michel Digonnet. Nice, long loop visiting Borden Hatch Mill and Grabtown Gulch trails, starting at the north entrance. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A gorgeous but steep hike next to a creek that is full of water after rains. A pleasant hike through rolling hills in Round Valley. Recommended in spring when valleys are lush green. A short hike along the coastline that involves rock scrambling and beach walk. Short and sweet hike through marshes and hills overlooking San Francisco Bay. An awesome hike through green rolling hills with panoramic valley views culminating in a quiet beach. There are unnamed trails on either side of the cove that climb quickly for gorgeous views of the coastline. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. A pleasant walk along all major trails along Shadow Cliffs Lake. Gorgeous hike over green rolling hills. Nice loop to North entrance via Whittemore Gulch and Harkins Ridge trails. A 13-mile section of Bay Area Ridge Trail that can be hiked only by prior registration with SFWater. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Panoramic Views of Pacific Ocean and the city of Pacifica as the hike goes through green rolling hills. Gorgeous hike through redwoods and creeks. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall in Marin County. Best visited after recent rains. Great hike meandering along the east shore of Del Valle Lake. Best visited in spring when hills are lush green. A relaxed walk amid second growth redwoods. Nice short hike in Edgewood Park from Canada Road trailhead. A beautiful hike through varied terrain including sandy beaches, rocky beaches and forests. A long loop that goes through Wilder Ranch trails on both sides of Highway 1. Meandering through shaded trails in forests, grasslands with panoramic valley views, beach walks to interesting stone formations and bluff trails with expansive views of the Pacific. An awesome hike through two beaches and hills in Marin Headlands with great valley views. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Pretty, shaded hike through Joaquin Miller Park. Pleasant hike through redwoods. A long route from Sunol Park HQ to Stanford Ave trailhead, via Mission Peak. Lush green hills and great views from the top. An awesome hike meandering along jagged Pacific coastline in Big Sur. A gorgeous hike through green rolling hills with panoramic valley views of Henry Coe. Pleasant walk along fire roads, partly shaded. Nice walk through marshlands and sloughs without any elevation gain. A section of the route is along paved road, parallel to Hwy 101. A gorgeous hike through redwoods in two adjacent parks. A short hike to a small-sized waterfall in Marin. Parking at the trail head is very tight. Beautiful walk through redwoods, also visiting Berry Creek Falls along the way. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A moderate hike offering great views of green rolling hills and the serene San Leandro Reservoir. About a third of the route is shaded. A steep hike through rugged terrain to a nice vista point with views of the Pacific and Santa Cruz mountains. A long loop through all three park entrances: east, north and west. A long loop through green rolling hills. A gorgeous hike through the northern vista points in Point Lobos. A gorgeous hike to a waterfall that pours directly into the ocean. Requires a delicate scramble at the end. Plenty of wildflowers all along the way. Pretty hike through varied terrain including ridges, beach walks and bluff trails. A gorgeous, fully shaded, short hike adjoining Larkspur Creek that flows with water after thunderstorms. Nice hike in Alum Rock Park with panoramic valley views. Long, strenuous hike in Mt Diablo area. Goes though green rolling hills in spring. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A challenging hike to Black Mountain from Rancho San Antonio. One of the best winter hikes in the bay area, all along a creek. A beautiful loop around various trails surrounding Park HQ in Portola Redwoods. A pleasant walk along Home Bay and Drakes Estero in Point Reyes. A longer but gentler route to Mission Peak. Lush green hills and great views from the top. Nice, long loop visiting Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall, a serene lake and a mountain with excellent views in Marin County. Best visited after recent rains. An easy hike along Perimeter Road, a paved road that circumnavigates Angel Island. Pleasant hike through varied terrain including rolling hills and forests. Short loop in Foothills park through Los Trancos Trail and Trappers Fire Road. Nice hike visiting both Balconies Cave and High Peaks in Pinnacles. A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. Pretty, shaded hike through Joaquin Miller Park. Palos Colorados Trail is exceptionally beautiful. Gorgeous redwood hike to a vista point that offers panoramic valley views. A pleasant hike through green rolling hills and wildflowers in spring. Pleasant walk through green rolling hills amid spring wildflowers. A short walk along a jetty and beach in Half Moon Bay. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A beautiful loop through Craig Britton and Harkins Ridge trails. A gently sloped hike along sunny trails in Rancho San Antonio. A fantastic short hike to a long sandy beach with few visitors. A beautiful loop around a Buddhist retreat center. About a third of the route is next to a creek, amid cool redwoods. An awesome shaded hike in Fall Creek with some steep sections for good cardio workout. A long hike in Tomales Bay through all the trails in the park. A pleasant walk around Oyster Bay. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall and a serene lake in Marin County. Best visited after recent rains. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A gorgeous hike in Portola Redwoods. Gorgeous hike through redwoods with over two miles next to a creek. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A gorgeous redwood hike next to a creek for several miles. Beautiful shaded hike through forests. A great hike through varied terrain including redwoods forests and green rolling hills. A short pleasant hike in Tomales Bay with little elevation gain. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. Pleasant walk along fire roads, partly shaded. A spectacular hike that visits all waterfalls and cascades in Uvas Canyon. Best done in late winter or early spring, after heavy rains. A short sweet hike leading to a beach and a promontory which can be explored by careful scrambling. Awesome views of rocky Pacific shoreline. Gorgeous hike through varied terrain like hills with valley views, coastal trail with great views of the Pacific, scramble down to a cove. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A pleasant shaded walk through Tiburon Uplands with a side trip to Heathcliff Fire Rd in Old St Hilary's which offers great views of Richmond - San Rafael Bridge. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Part 5 of the 32-mile East Bay Skyline National Recreation Trail, through Redwood Regional Park. Beautiful, mostly shaded route from Muir Woods to Pantoll Ranger Station and back. Tall redwoods, creek crossings. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks to Five Finger Falls via Sand Point Overlook. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill Nice, shaded hike through Forest of Nisene Marks to an overlook point in the north of the park. Nice loop through Purisima Creek Redwoods that visits all the entrances: east, north and west. A pretty hike through varied terrain. Pleasant, shaded walk along Skyline Trail that meanders next to Skyline Blvd. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall, a serene lake and a mountain with excellent views in Marin County. Best visited after recent rains. Beautiful shaded hike to a small waterfall, all along a creek that flows with water after seasonal rains. Gorgeous hike through varied terrain. Starting off with great ocean views, the hike meanders through forests and ridges with awesome valley views. Plenty of wildflowers in spring. Scenic hike all along a trail meandering next to Lake Lomond. Nice picnic spots next to the trailhead. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill A long walk, mostly shaded, through Los Trancos Open Space Preserve and Foothills Park. A short, sweet hike through a lush green forest. The route can be made longer by about two miles by starting inside the park, next to campsites. A rarely traversed route along an unmaintained trail in Mount Tamalpais Watershed. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Beach access requires scrambling with the help of ropes. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A short, sweet hike in Alum Rock. Pleasant hike in south-west section of Castle Rock. A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. A pleasant hike along a ridge with nice views along both sides: San Francisco Bay, Pacific Ocean and various towns nearby. Short, sweet hike through Balconies Cave in Pinnacles. A gorgeous, fully shaded, short hike adjoining Larkspur Creek that flows with water after thunderstorms. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill. A point to point hike from Sunol to Ohlone College, mostly along Ohlone Wilderness Trail. Lush green hills and great views from the top. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall and a mountain in Marin County that offers excellent views. Best visited after recent rains. A beautiful hike traversing the entire Coastal Trail in Point Reyes through two long beaches and a waterfall. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. Beautiful short hike to an easy summit with excellent views of Hiddenbrooke valley full of homes. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks to Maple Falls and Sand Point Overlook. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Gently sloped, short route in Wunderlich Park. Nice short hike through redwoods. Short loop through green rolling hills. A pleasant walk to a small hill with great ocean views. Nice exploration of Big Sur coastline in Garrapata. Nice walk along a four-mile sandy beach extending from Mussel Rock in the south to Fort Funston in the north. A strenuous hike offering great views of green rolling hills and the serene San Leandro Reservoir. About half the route is shaded. Beautiful walk through sandy and rocky beaches next to relatively calm Drakes Bay. A point to point route to Mission Peak from Ohlone College to Stanford Ave via Ohlone Wilderness Trail. Gorgeous views all along the route. All along Purisima Creek Trail connecting the east and west entrances. A pleasant walk into a rocky finger-like landmass projecting into the Pacific. Plenty of wildflowers and excellent views of Point Reyes coastline in both directions. Long loop through Purisima Creek Redwoods that visits all three entrances: east, north and south. Also goes through Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails. A pleasant hike adjoining Creek Trail and through Short Bunny Loop. A gorgeous hike, fully shaded, leading to a seasonal waterfall. The last half mile requires scrambling and wading through a creek. Gorgeous loop through varied terrain in San Pedro Valley. A long loop in Rancho San Antonio. A desert peak with outstanding views. One of the easier peaks listed by the Desert Peaks Section of  Sierra Club, the route is a combination of cross country hiking and walking along a well maintained trail. If you enjoy desert peaks near Death Valley, check out DPS List of Peaks. Nice views of Sharp Park Beach and Pacific Ocean from various vista points along a ridge trail. Fantastic hike going through Bear Gulch Cave and High Peaks which offer panoramic valley views of rock formations in Pinnacles. A long route through a park popular among mountain bikers. One of the best coastal hikes in the bay area from Sharp Park Beach to Pacifica State Beach. Meandering through bluff trails and beach walks, this hike offers great views of the Pacific coastline and rock formations near the coast. Short, shaded loop in San Pedro Valley Park. Part 4 of the 32-mile East Bay Skyline National Recreation Trail, through Redwood Regional Park. A pleasant hike through varied terrain up to Black Mountain that offers panoramic valley views. A short hike in Big Canyon Park Nice walk along a long nine-mile sandy beach extending from Mussel Rock in the south to Cliff House in the north. Nice loop through varied terrain including forests and rolling hills. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Pleasant, shaded walk through redwoods adjoining Highway 9 and Highway 35. A long hike that covers all major trails in Joaquin Miller Park and Dimond Canyon Park. The best section is along the Palos Colorados Trail which meanders next to a cool redwood canyon. A challenging hike to Black Mountain from Rhus Ridge Trailhead. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A short walk around the calm blue Don Castro Lake. Nice, long walk through popular trails in two adjacent parks: Sanborn and Castle Rock. A long hike through rolling hills with great views of Berkeley and San Franisco Bay. The last few miles are on a paved road. A gorgeous route that stays adjacent to creeks throughout. Great shaded hike through redwoods. The last two miles are along a paved road with residences. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall and a serene lake in Marin County. Best visited after recent rains. An alternative route to Mission Peak, gaining 2100 ft in three miles. A shaded loop visiting Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails, starting at the west entrance. A gorgeous Big Sur hike to Manuel Peak and Post Summit. Awesome 360-degree views at Post Summit. Great hike through green rolling hills with panoramic views of San Francisco Bay. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Shaded hike through redwoods and with two river crossings. Goes via the Observation Deck which is the highest point in Henry Cowell Awesome loop through all major trails in Sunol. Green rolling hills, majestic views, plenty of wildflowers in spring. Pleasant hike over green rolling hills. A long route visiting Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails, starting at the north entrance. A short walk next to San Francisco Bay. Part of the walk is near Highway 1 where traffic noise is prominent. A pretty route to Peter's Creek Loop from Long Ridge Open Space Preserve on Sklyine Blvd. Quick hike along Bunny Loop in Hidden Villa. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Part 4 of the 32-mile East Bay Skyline National Recreation Trail, through Redwood Regional Park, going through French Trail. Gorgeous hike over green rolling hills. Best visited in spring when hills are lush green. Short, vigorous hike to High Peaks in Pinnacles. An awesome redwood hike to both Maple Falls and Five Finger Falls. Rugged terrain and panoramic views abound in this hike. Panoramic valley views from various peaks: Twin Peaks, Eagle Peak and Mount Diablo. Nice stroll through Picchetti Ranch. Partly shaded route reaching a creek. Part 3 of the 32-mile East Bay Skyline National Recreation Trail, from Steam Trains Parking Lot on Lomas Cantadas (Tilden) to Skyline Gate (entrance for Redwood Regional Park). The hike goes through Sibley Volcanic Regional Preserve and Huckleberry Botanic Regional Preserve in Oakland. One of the steepest trails in the bay area offering panoramic valley views along the way. Long hike along rugged fire roads encircling Lafayette Reservoir. Great panoramic views of the lake and valleys nearby. Pleasant, shaded walk through redwoods adjoining Highway 9. A pleasant hike in Russian Ridge through open grasslands, creek crossings and forests with oaks, laurels and douglas fir. A gorgeous hike along the Pacific coastline with several detours to vista points and beaches. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Nice hike through a shaded forest. A beautiful route through Mt Tamalpais and Muir Woods that is shaded throughout. Many sections are adjacent to creeks, which are full of water after winter rains. A gorgeous hike to Carson Falls, best visited in late winter after rains. This route also explores fire roads to the south west of Carson Falls, making it longer. Gorgeous hike meandering next to the Pacific coastline, going through Mori Point in Pacifica. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. Hike through Bear Gulch Caves in Pinnacles from the Visitor Center. Gorgeous hike to Mt Livermore and the eastern section of Angel Island. Pleasant loop in Hidden Villa along creeks, ridges, forests. Long loop through Purisima Creek Redwoods that goes through all three entrances: east, north and west. A strenuous hike over rugged terrain and green rolling hills offering majestic valley views. A gorgeous Big Sur hike to Manuel Peak. Great views of Big Sur and the Pacific from the peak. A long hike to Black Mountain that also explores the eastern section of Monte Bello including Waterwheel Creek Trail. Pretty hike to a seasonal waterfall in Marin County. Best visited after recent rains. Pleasant hike through forests and creek crossings. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Nice, shaded loop all along Purisima Creek trail from west entrance to the east. Return trip by Craig Britton and Harkins Ridge trails. A point to point hike from Ed Levin to Stanford Ave trailhead, via Monument Peak and Mission Peak. Gorgeous views of green valleys in spring, especially along the section connecting the two peaks. Nice, shaded hike through Forest of Nisene Marks to an overlook point in the north of the park. A gorgeous redwood hike next to a creek for several miles. A pleasant walk to a quiet and infrequently visited beach near Half Moon Bay. A long loop through green rolling hills. Nice, long walk through popular trails in two adjacent parks: Sanborn and Castle Rock. A vigorous climb to East Peak for magnificent 360-degree views. Return trip via Middle Peak which also offers great views A steep Big Sur hike in Andrew Molera State Park to two peaks. Great 360-degree views from Post Summit. A short but pleasant walk amid redwoods in Forest of Nisene Marks. Trout Gulch Trail is not shown in all maps and looked overgrown in March 2012. A loop around salt marshes and ponds. Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. A pleasant walk along a paved trail with panoramic views of east bay. Long loop covering all major trails in Foothills Park, going through various micro climates. Los Trancos Trail is the prettiest section of this route. A short walk next to San Francisco Bay. Part of the walk is along a fishing pier. A great redwood hike leading to a loop around a creek. Fully shaded throughout but a tad long at 11.5 miles round-trip. No particularly steep sections. A short walk along San Francisco bay. Great long hike along Bay Area Ridge Trail from Sir Francis Drake Blvd in the north to Golden Gate Bridge in the south. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill A serene hike through beautiful redwoods to Slate Creek Trail Camp. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Short walk on rolling hills with gorgeous views of Angel Island (that slowly appears in the horizon like a sleeping dinosaur). Both Golden Gate Bridge and Richmon - San Rafael Bridge are also visible. A short but pleasant walk amid redwoods in Forest of Nisene Marks. Trout Gulch Trail is not shown in all maps and looked overgrown in March 2012. Strenuous hike in Mission Peak. Short Loop in Sanborn County Park Beautiful walk in a wooded forest with several markers for studying botany. Nice loop through Craig Britton, Purisima Creek and Harkins Ridge trails. A pleasant walk next to San Francisco Bay shoreline. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. Awesome hike through a redwood canyon, chaparral filled ridges and views of jagged Big Sur coastline. Great hike through forests and trails meandering next to Loch Lomond Lake. Extensive picnic area near the trailhead. A great hike over remote rolling hills with panoramic valley views. Best done in spring when hills are green. Nice long hike from Hidden Villa to Black Mountain. Mostly shaded. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A strenuous hike over rugged terrain and green rolling hills offering majestic valley views. Relaxed hike to Balconies Cave from Old Pinnacles Trailhead Gorgeous shaded hike through redwoods and sandstone formations. A route visiting the North entrance via Whittemore Gulch and Craig Britton trails. An alternate route to Mission Peak with many more trees and solitude. Almost everybody starts at Stanford Ave. Mostly shaded hike with panoramic valley views from East Peak. Beautiful short hike to an easy summit with excellent views of Hiddenbrooke valley full of homes. A short, sweet hike. Most of the route is shaded. Has two climbing sections. Each gains about 500 ft. Goes through a gorgeous picnic spot a the confluence of Adobe Creek and East Fork Creek. Great views of Silicon Valley from Elephant Mountain. An easy walk down to a quiet beach that offers great views of Golden Gate Bridge. Several campsites and picnic spots near the beach. Nice short hike, mostly shaded, in Rancho San Antonio Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks to Five Finger Falls. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A pleasant hike in the southern section of Mt Tamalpais State Park. Great views of the Pacific on a clear day. About half the trail is shaded. A long route that goes through all three entrances: north, east and west. Also visits Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A shaded route amid redwoods, through West Ridge, Loma Prieta and Bridge Creek Trails. Beautiful, long route in Purisima, going through Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails in the south and Harkins Ridge and Craig Britton trails in the north. A pleasant hike in Windy Hill A short hike along the most popular trail in Big Sur. Great views of McWay Falls, one of two basin falls in California. A pleasant hike through green rolling hills. Best done in spring. Nice hike to Maguire Peak with panoramic valley views. Great hike via High Peaks and Bear Gulch Cave in Pinnacles. Beautiful shaded hike through forests. An awesome hike through a remote section of Pinnacles and through High Peaks that offer magnificent valley views. An interesting hike through redwoods and green rolling hills in a rarely visited part of Purisima Creek. A short hike to a small-sized waterfall and the trails adjoining nearby creeks in Cascade Canyon. Parking at the trail head is very tight. Pleasant hike through varied terrain including rolling hills and forests. Awesome loop through all major trails in Sunol. Green rolling hills, majestic views, plenty of wildflowers in spring. Pleasant, shaded loop in Sanborn County Park. A gorgeous walk along Santa Cruz coastline. A spectacular route through rolling hills and coastal views. A point to point hike from Sunol to Stanford Ave trailhead. Awesome valley views and lush green hills in spring. A long loop visiting the north entrance via Whittemore Gulch and Harkins Ridge trails. Also visits Grabtown Gulch and Borden Hatch Mill trails. Nice long hike to Berry Creek Falls along Skyline to the Sea trail, with a side trip to McAbee Overlook. This hike goes through different micro-climates, making it an overall pleasant experience. Great hike through green rolling hills in Edgewood Park. Awesome redwood hike all along Aptos Creek, with several creek crossings without bridges. Great hike through quiet, shaded trails in Castle Rock. Pleasant, shaded walk through Castle Rock. Nice, shaded hike through redwoods and rugged trails. Short loop in the northern section of Arastradero Preserve through green rolling hills. Pleasant, shaded loop in Sanborn County Park. A short walk around Lake Temescal. A pleasant hike with views of green rolling hills. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A long loop through Craig Britton, Purisima Creek and Harkins Ridge trails, starting at the north entrance. Great hike through varied terrain including beach walks. A pleasant walk along Home Bay and Drakes Estero in Point Reyes. Plus a trip to awesome views of Limantour Spit from Drakes Head. Fantastic hike through varied terrain including shaded green forest and volcanic rocks. Long hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. A fully shaded loop through redwoods in Phleger Estate. Almost half the route is next to a creek that has plenty of water after winter rains. A short and sweet hike in Eaton - Big Canyon Park An awesome hike to Maple Falls going through redwoods. There are multiple creek crossings without bridges in the last half mile. Best done after a thunderstorm because the waterfall is seasonal and short lived. Peaceful hike to a long sandy beach with some rock outcrops to the south which can be climbed for great views. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Nice short hike, mostly shaded, in Rancho San Antonio Steep climb to Rocky Ridge. Awesome valley views. A pleasant walk next to San Francisco Bay amid dozens of dogs. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. A hike to the highest summit in Napa valley. Rugged terrain and panoramic views abound in this hike. Short hike over rugged terrain in Sierra Azul. Pleasant hike in the western section of Castle Rock. A gorgeous hike adjoining Creek Trail. Great cardiovascular workout along this hike over green rolling hills and panoramic valley views. A pleasant walk along Hayward Shoreline. Pleasant hike through varied terrain, best visited in spring or winter. An awesome walk combining urban areas and green rolling hills. Awesome hike through all major attractions of Pinnacles including both caves and High Peaks. Pleasant, shaded walk through Castle Rock. A variation of the regular route from Ohlone College: from Mission Peak, it continues along Peak Trail and Horse Heaven Trail, then climbs up again along Peak Meadow Trail, to form a lollipop shaped loop. Gorgeous valley views Long loop in Purisima Creek Redwoods visiting all three entrances: north, east and west. Panoramic Views of Pacific Ocean and the city of Pacifica as the hike goes through green rolling hills. Nice walk along the Pacific coastline, through rocky and sandy beaches. A pleasant hike next to a lagoon, culminating in a beach. Great views throughout. Nice loop through Purisima Creek Redwoods going through Craig Britton and Harkins Ridge trails, with a sie trip to the north entrance. Pleasant hike through tall redwoods and vista points. A route that explores all the trails in the western section of Cascade Canyon Open Space Preserve, all the way to Pine Mountain. The trails go through varied terrain like forests, creeks, waterfalls and ridges offering panoramic valley views. Great long hike through varied terrain including shoreline walks and green rolling hills. A popular jogging, hiking and biking trail in San Mateo adjoining a large lake. Great hike through green rolling hills and rugged terrain. A pleasant beach walk so close to the city. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Awesome hike through varied terrain in Butano, including redwoods, creeks and ridges. Pleasant shaded hike through redwoods. A longer route route to Berry Creek Falls, one of the best hikes in the bay area A point to point hike from Sunol to Stanford Ave trailhead. Awesome valley views and lush green hills in spring. Short sweet hike to Point Reyes Lighthouse with expansive views of the Pacific. Requires climbing down 308 steps. Gorgeous hike in Nisene Marks to Maple Falls and Sand Point Overlook. Awesome short hike to the highest point in Angel Island. Pleasant walk along fire roads, partly shaded. Short hike along a paved road encircling Lafayette Reservoir. Nice short loop through green hills and wildflowers in spring. Part 2 of the 32-mile East Bay Skyline National Recreation Trail, from Inspiration Point (Tilden) to Steams Trains Parking Lot on Lomas Cantadas (Tilden). Fantastic views from atop Mt Livermore and along the periphery of Angel Island. Nice route through green rolling hills in spring. A gorgeous hike through redwoods in two adjacent parks.